docs: add messaging_reference.adoc (#1094)
starknet-io/starknet-docs: components/Starknet/modules/architecture_and_concepts/pages/Network_Architecture/messaging_reference.adoc

[id="messaging_reference"]
= Messaging reference
:description: Comprehensive function and event reference for StarknetMessaging.

The StarknetMessaging smart contracts include functions and events that you use to implement various flows in a dApp.

> For information on the messaging mechanism, see xref:messaging-mechanism.adoc[Messaging mechanism].

Author: Thanks for your guide.

* xref:#l1ToL2Messages[`l1ToL2Messages`]
* xref:#sendMessageToL2[`sendMessageToL2`]
* xref:#startL1ToL2MessageCancellation[`startL1ToL2MessageCancellation`]

|===

The L1 events, where available, are defined in the following smart contract:

[cols=",,",]
|===
|Contract |Description |Events

|https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/IStarknetMessagingEvents.sol[`IStarknetMessagingEvents.sol`] |
The IStarknetMessagingEvents contract that defining messaging events. a|
* xref:#ConsumedMessageToL1[`ConsumedMessageToL1`]
* xref:#ConsumedMessageToL2[`ConsumedMessageToL2`]
* xref:#LogMessageToL1[`LogMessageToL1`]
* xref:#LogMessageToL2[`LogMessageToL2`]
* xref:#MessageToL2Canceled[`MessageToL2Canceled`]
* xref:#MessageToL2CancellationStarted[`MessageToL2CancellationStarted`]

|===

'''

== L1 function reference

Functions are listed in alphabetical order.

'''

[#cancelL1ToL2Message]
=== `cancelL1ToL2Message`

[discrete]
==== Description

Cancels an L1 to L2 message. This function should be called at least messageCancellationDelay() seconds after the call to startL1ToL2MessageCancellation().

A message may only be canceled by its sender.

> If the message is missing, the call will revert.

Author: the message is not exactly the `payload` parameter, it's a hash value.

Note that the message fee is not refunded.

[discrete]
==== State Mutability

> None.

Reviewer: I need to find out the state mutability of these functions.

[discrete]
==== Parameters

[horizontal,labelwidth="30",role=stripes-odd]
`uint256 _toAddress_`:: The address of the L2 contract.
`uint256 _selector_`:: The selector of the message.
`uint256[] calldata _payload_`:: The payload of the message.
`uint256 _nonce_`:: The nonce of the message.

[discrete]
==== Returns

[horizontal,labelwidth="30",role=stripes-odd]
`bytes32 _msgHash_`:: The hash of the canceled message.

[discrete]
==== Function definition

Contract: link:https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/StarknetMessaging.sol[`StarknetMessaging.sol`]

* Function: link:https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/StarknetMessaging.sol#L161[`cancelL1ToL2Message`]

'''

[#consumeMessageFromL2]
=== `consumeMessageFromL2`

[discrete]
==== Description

Consumes a message that was sent from an L2 contract.

Returns the hash of the message.

[discrete]
==== State Mutability

None.

[discrete]
==== Parameters

[horizontal,labelwidth="30",role=stripes-odd]

> `uint256 _fromAddress_`:: The address of the L2 contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`uint256 _fromAddress_`:: The address of the L2 contract that sent the message.
```

`uint256[] calldata _payload_`:: The payload of the message.

[discrete]
==== Returns

[horizontal,labelwidth="30",role=stripes-odd]
`bytes32 _msgHash_`:: The hash of the consumed message.

[discrete]
==== Function definition

Contract: link:https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/StarknetMessaging.sol[`StarknetMessaging.sol`]

* Function: link:https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/StarknetMessaging.sol#L132[`consumeMessageFromL2`]

'''

[#getMaxL1MsgFee]
=== `getMaxL1MsgFee`

[discrete]
==== Description

> Returns the max fee (in Wei) that StarkNet will accept per single message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the maximum fee, in Wei, that Starknet accepts per single message.
```

[discrete]
==== State Mutability

`pure`

[discrete]
==== Parameters

None.

[discrete]
==== Returns

[horizontal,labelwidth="30",role=stripes-odd]

> `uint256 _maxFee_`:: The max fee (in Wei) that StarkNet will accept per single message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`uint256 _maxFee_`:: The maximum fee, in Wei, that Starknet accepts per single message.
```

[discrete]
==== Function definition

Contract: link:https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/StarknetMessaging.sol[`StarknetMessaging.sol`]

* Function: link:https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/StarknetMessaging.sol#L31[`getMaxL1MsgFee`]

'''

[#l1ToL2Messages]
=== `l1ToL2Messages`

[discrete]
==== Description

> Returns `msg_fee + 1` if there is a pending message associated with the given 'msgHash', otherwise, returns 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[horizontal,labelwidth="30",role=stripes-odd]
`msg_fee + 1`:: A pending message is associated with the given message hash.
`0`:: No pending message is associated with the given message hash.
```

Reviewer: I'll continue reviewing from here.

[id="messaging_reference"]
= Messaging reference
:description: Comprehensive function and event reference for Starknet messaging.

> The Starknet messaging smart contracts include functions and events that you use to implement various flows in a dApp.

Reviewer 2: this needs to be rewritten to match the rest of the docs style

Reviewer: Responded in #1209.

For information on the messaging mechanism, see xref:architecture_and_concepts:Network_Architecture/messaging-mechanism.adoc[Messaging mechanism].

The L1 functions, where available, are defined in the following smart contract:

[cols=",,",]
|===
|Contract |Description |Functions

|https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/StarknetMessaging.sol[`StarknetMessaging.sol`] |
The contract that implements messaging functions.

Interfaces are available through https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/IStarknetMessaging.sol[`IStarknetMessaging.sol`]. a|
* xref:#cancelL1ToL2Message[`cancelL1ToL2Message`]
* xref:#consumeMessageFromL2[`consumeMessageFromL2`]
* xref:#getMaxL1MsgFee[`getMaxL1MsgFee`]
* xref:#l1ToL2Messages[`l1ToL2Messages`]
* xref:#sendMessageToL2[`sendMessageToL2`]

> * xref:#startL1ToL2MessageCancellation[`startL1ToL2MessageCancellation`]

Reviewer 2: @stoobie sorted alphabetically not like the contract definition

Reviewer: Are you requesting that they be sorted as shown in the contract?

Reviewer 2: No I don’t care, just not sure how it’s done elsewhere

Author: In other docs, for example starkgate_function_reference.adoc, functions are listed in alphabetical order.

|===

The L1 events, where available, are defined in the following smart contract:

[cols=",,",]
|===
|Contract |Description |Events

|https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/IStarknetMessagingEvents.sol[`IStarknetMessagingEvents.sol`] |
The contract that defines messaging events. a|
* xref:#ConsumedMessageToL1[`ConsumedMessageToL1`]
* xref:#ConsumedMessageToL2[`ConsumedMessageToL2`]
* xref:#LogMessageToL1[`LogMessageToL1`]
* xref:#LogMessageToL2[`LogMessageToL2`]
* xref:#MessageToL2Canceled[`MessageToL2Canceled`]
* xref:#MessageToL2CancellationStarted[`MessageToL2CancellationStarted`]

|===

'''

== L1 function reference

Functions are listed in alphabetical order.

'''

[#cancelL1ToL2Message]
=== `cancelL1ToL2Message`

[discrete]
==== Description

> Cancels an L1 to L2 message. Call this function after calling the `startL1ToL2MessageCancellation()` function. The time between the calls to these two functions must be at least the number of seconds defined by the link:https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/caba294d82eeeccc3d86a158adb8ba209bf2d8fc/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/StarknetMessaging.sol#L25[`L1L2_MESSAGE_CANCELLATION_DELAY_TAG`] constant.

Reviewer 2: Sort of correct, the constant defines the storage slot the value is actually stored at. To get the real value one should call [this](https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/caba294d82eeeccc3d86a158adb8ba209bf2d8fc/src/starkware/starknet/solidity/StarknetMessaging.sol#L59-L61) function

Reviewer: So should we add `messageCancellationDelay()` to the reference?

Author: I have added `messageCancellationDelay`
